---
title: All Of The Above
category: imladris
---

It is easy to think there is one solution for everyone and for all the
problems in the world. As Catholics, though, this would mean denying
parts of ourselves.

<!--more-->

> To support this claim, consider the beginning of the book: MacIntyre
>   opens with a version of Walter Miller’s science fiction novel A
>   Canticle for Liebowitz, namely, a future where science has been
>   destroyed, and mankind is trying to piece together “science” from
>   smashed-up pieces and fragments.
> 
> -- David F. Dieteman [The Catholic Option: “All of the Above”](http://www.crisismagazine.com/2014/catholic-option)

But as we saw in _Canticle_, if all you have is fragments, then you will end up with nonsense.

St. Paul's instruction that there is one spirit and many gifts is relevant here.

The debate has been over whether or not we should withdraw and
re-emerge when there are people outside the walls who value the sorts
of things we value. Yes, we must have communities where the lore and
beauty of the West is held dear and treated as foundation and
inspiration.

But we must also have people who preach to those who can be
saved. Perhaps even some of those houses of lore and healing can
cultivate preachers to minister to the wounded. Sometimes this will be
born of poverty that chooses generosity over selfish
grasping. Sometimes this will be raised from those who
uncompromisingly speak the truth and insist that others do
so. Sometimes this will come from the clever application of wealth and
privilege to particular problems.

Catholic, after all, means "universal" -- and in all the senses of
that word. The Church needs all the gifts that the Spirit has to
bestow. The trick is to discern which you have been given and then to
share them with those around you in your particular way.
